
via
    Funding the Next Generation of Content Farms
    Some of the World’s Largest Blue Chip Brands Unintentionally Support the Spread of Unreliable AI-Generated News Websites
    https://www.newsguardtech.com/misinformation-monitor/june-2023/

local
    https://github.com/pjmattingly/research-repute/blob/main/bib/Junk%20websites%20filled%20with%20AI-generated%20text%20are%20pulling%20in%20money%20from%20programmatic%20ads/Funding%20the%20Next%20Generation%20of%20Content%20Farms%20-%20Misinformation%20Monitor_%20June%202023%20-%20NewsGuard.pdf

----

"Major global brands are supporting the proliferation of unreliable artificial intelligence-generated news and information websites (UAINs) by funneling programmatic advertising dollars to the rapidly growing number of such sites, a NewsGuard analysis has found."

"These ads appear to have been generated programmatically, meaning that rather than the companies choosing to have their advertisements appear on these sites, they were positioned automatically through a system that places ads regardless of the nature of the website. This programmatic approach thus funds low-quality and misinformation sites, while failing to protect  “brand safety,” with most of the ads placed by Google."

"NewsGuard defines Unreliable Artificial Intelligence-Generated News websites (UAIN) as sites that operate with little or no human oversight and publish articles written largely or entirely by bots."

"Many of these AI-generated sites appear to be entirely financed by programmatic advertising. Some of the websites churn out huge volumes of articles on which ads can be placed — one such site produces an average of more than 1,200 articles a day — thereby incentivizing the creation of these low-quality, AI-generated sites with little to no apparent editorial oversight."

"these lists are often not kept up to date", yes how could they, when making a "new" site with "new content" is as easy as buying a new domain name
    "Although many advertisers and their advertising agencies maintain “exclusion lists” of “brand unsafe” websites where their advertising should not appear, these lists are often not kept up to date and clearly have not kept pace with the surge in UAIN sites."

"Programmatic advertising uses algorithms and advanced auction processes to deliver highly targeted digital advertisements directly to individual users, rather than to specific websites. This means that the ads effectively “follow” users as they browse the internet. "

interesting, the bad actors can just look for existing articles and ask an LLM to rephrase it and republish it
this seems difficult to detect, as it would almost certainly take a human to analyse both and find they were on the same topic with much of the same content
a sort of "one way encryption" for content
    "Some UAIN websites on which ads for major brands appeared seemingly used AI tools to rewrite articles, often without credit, from mainstream news outlets."

interesting, they make a distinction between outright falsehoods
and those sites that plagarize, or serve low effort automated content
thus, a site can have low repute despite it not having false-content, it can just be the internet equivalent of "white noise"
    "To be clear, most of the ads were delivered to NewsGuard’s analysts on AI-generated sites that are low-quality but that do not spread misinformation."

"Some of the UAIN websites on which the big brands appeared publish hundreds of articles a day, seemingly with the help of a chatbot. (It is often difficult to detect whether an article has been written using AI if it does not include error messages commonly found in AI-generated texts.) "

"Other UAIN websites contained as many as a dozen or more ad widgets on articles with AI error messages. Ad widgets are pieces of code website developers can place on their websites to run programmatic ads. Google does not appear to have a limit on the number of ad widgets a site can place on a particular page, according to the Help section of the company’s website."

"It is as simple for UAIN websites, just as any other site, to quickly monetize their content. On the landing page for Google AdSense, the product name of the ad widgets Google provides to publishers, the company touts the ease with which sites can begin earning programmatic ad dollars: “All you have to do is drop the little AdSense code into your website and it immediately starts working.” "

"Since first starting to track the spread of UAIN websites in May 2023, NewsGuard has identified some 25 new sites a week. The total number of UAIN sites is likely much larger than the 217 currently identified by NewsGuard, because NewsGuard is typically able to find new UAIN websites only if they have published articles containing AI-language model error messages.'

----

they find that there are sites whose content is likely generated by LLMs, which contain advertisements, thus allowing the site operators to collect money from their "sites
 content"
they note in the article that such sites are low effort or plagaristic in nature, but they do not necessarily have to publish misinformation

they also note a tactic observed is to rephrase existing content and post them as article
    for example, scarping existing articles from news sites, and having an LLM rephrase them
this tactic is interesting, in that it highlights that making very similar, but non-identical documents is very simple

by implication this means that the existence of two such documents calls into question the veracity of them both
    e.g., which one is real? Are either real?

this tactic is also very difficult to detect as the plagarised content is not a word-for-word copy, but rather a synthesis
and there doesn't seem to be a reasonable way to detect that type of plgarism, as the plagarised document is a reasonable facsimile of an actualy document; when such documents do not have obvious tells (e.g., strings in the document similar to "As an AI language model...")